---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  RGF5IDQ0LzQ1OiBJbnNvbW5pYQ==
wordpress_id: 353
wordpress_url: !binary |-
  aHR0cDovL3d3dy5mcnltYW5ldC5jb20vP3A9MzUz
date: 2010-11-14 17:37:01.000000000 -06:00
---
I'm home. It's very much an eerie feeling to be here. I know I've only been gone for 7 weeks, but I really just feel as if I have been at work and now I've come home. For some reason, my perception of time is really broken. I've been gone 7 weeks, and it feels to me like a long work-day. A <strong>really</strong> <strong>long</strong> work-day. Because let's face it, that's what I've been doing now for the last several weeks.

It's so odd that every time I fall asleep, I'm having crazy dreams about time. I'm running some department in China, and everything has to be done in order at a specific time. I end up tossing and turning in bed stressing about the various checkpoints in the process that have to be hit on time or else. Not sure what else, but else is out there.

The best part about traveling across the world is the insomnia. It's the feeling of never really being awake or never really being asleep. I'm in a constant daze as my body attempts to readjust to US Central Time. I thought this would be a little easier given my schedule in the Philippines was already mostly on US time anyhow. I'm wide awake at 3AM CST, and I'm fairly good until about 3:30PM. I take a small nap, and then I'm okay until about 8:00... tough it out until 9AM, and then the cycle repeats. I can tell Monday at work is going to be fun. I am in full-on zombie mode.

<em>Braaaaains!</em>

I am certainly back in the land of plenty. I used to think that Tennessee was a litter filled state. Well, in relation to other states that I've visited - there is a fair amount of trash around the town and along the country. However, nothing like the Philippines. The first meal that I ate out of the airport was a Baguette and Roast Beef in Toronto, and it was the biggest single sandwich I've eaten in a while. I was full after half of the sandwich. Dinner last night was split between my wife and I, because the portions are just too big. I'm hoping to make this a good habit to keep.

Traveling home was of little incident. My biggest surprise was landing in Toronto and having to immigrate into Canada, only to walk down the hall and deport from Canada and check into the US while still in Canada. This is neat in concept, but it creates a somewhat awkward transaction where I am responsible for collecting my baggage coming internationally, carry it across boarders, and drop it back off in what is US territory. I'm not sure how other countries are able to seamlessly allow my baggage to transfer between borders while I simply walk to my next flight (possibly stopping in another security screening area).

Sitting on my couch feels weird. Driving in my car feels weird. Hugging my wife feels weird. It all feels like I just left these things, and I'm going to just leave them again in two weeks. Trying to understand and process how to deal with these feelings. In the meantime, I'm up and nobody else is... so I'm going to get my read on!

Playing around with my website layout - comments are welcome!
